.TH RULER 7
.SH NAME
ruler \- ruler request, response, and rulerfile format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ruler.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.MR ruler 4
daemon matches requests against a rulerfile and returns configuration directives.
Clients write a request to the 9P file
.B ruler/query
and read the response from the same fid.
.SS "Request format
The request is textual, one attribute per line (newline-separated).
All four attributes are required; ruler may return an empty response if any is missing.
.RS
.TP
.B query
The subject to match against rules.
For editors the query is typically the absolute path of the file being opened.
Ruler does not interpret the value; it is matched as a string against rulerfile patterns.
.TP
.B client
Client identifier (e.g.\ 
.BR acme ,
.BR sam ).
Used when a rule includes a client scope.
.TP
.B event
Event name (e.g.\ 
.BR open ,
.BR save ).
Used when a rule includes an event scope.
.TP
.B id
Identity of the calling component (e.g. window id); not used for matching.
.RE
.PP
Example:
.EX
	query=/home/user/src/main.go
	client=acme
	event=open
	id=7
.EE
.SS "Response format
The response is zero or more lines of the form
.IB key = value .
The first
.B =
on a line separates the key from the value; the rest of the line is the value, so values may contain additional
.B =
characters.
No match or empty rules yield an empty response (zero bytes).
.PP
Ruler does not interpret the response; it returns the directive lines from the matching rule verbatim.
Clients apply only the keys they understand; unknown keys are ignored.
.SS "Rulerfile format
The rulerfile is a sequence of rule sets.
See
.MR ruler 4
for the rulerfile lookup order.
A blank line terminates each rule set.
Lines beginning with
.B #
are comments and are treated as blank.
.PP
A line of the form
.EX
	include \f2file\fP
.EE
substitutes the contents of
.I file
for the line, as in a C
.B #include .
The file name is not quoted.
If
.I file
is an absolute path it is opened directly.
Otherwise ruler searches the following locations in order:
.IP 1.
.BR \*9/rule/ file
(where the built-in
.B initial.rules
lives).
.IP 2.
.BR \*9/ruler/ file
(for user-installed rule libraries).
.IP 3.
.BR $HOME/lib/ruler/ file .
.PP
Include depth is limited to 10 to prevent recursion.
.PP
Rules are matched in order; the first matching rule set wins and the rest are ignored.
To override a rule from an included file, place the overriding rule set
.I before
the include line.
A typical user rulerfile at
.B $HOME/lib/rules
that overrides the Go rule and then falls back to the built-in defaults:
.EX
# override Go settings
client is acme
event is open
query matches '*.go'
rule set tabstop 4
rule set tabexpand on

include initial.rules
.EE
.SS "Patterns
Each rule set contains one or more pattern lines and one or more
.B rule set
directive lines.
Pattern lines have the form
.IR object verb argument .
.RS
.TP
.B "client is \fIvalue\fP"
The rule applies only when the request
.B client
equals
.IR value .
.TP
.B "event is \fIvalue\fP"
The rule applies only when the request
.B event
equals
.IR value .
.TP
.B "query matches \fIpattern\fP"
The request
.B query
must match
.IR pattern .
Multiple
.B query matches
lines in a rule set are ORed: the rule matches if any one matches.
Patterns may be a suffix (e.g.\ 
.BR '*.c' ,
.BR '*.go' ),
a prefix, an exact string, or a regular expression in single quotes.
.RE
.SS "Directives
Directive lines have the form
.EX
	rule set \fIkey\fP \fIvalue\fP
.EE
The
.I key
is a single word (e.g.\ 
.BR comfmt ,
.BR tabstop ,
.BR tabexpand );
.I value
is the rest of the line and may contain spaces; it may be quoted in single quotes.
Multiple
.B rule set
lines in a rule set define the directive set for that rule.
.PP
If
.I value
for
.B tabstop
is empty, it defaults to
.BR 8 .
.SS "Directive names (Acme)
The following keys are understood by
.MR acme 1
when it queries ruler; others are ignored.
.RS
.TP
.B comfmt
Comment format string (e.g.\ 
.BR '// %s' ).
.TP
.B tabstop
Tab width in character units.
.TP
.B tabexpand
.B on
or
.BR off .
.TP
.B indent
.B on
or
.BR off .
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
# Go files
client is acme
event is open
query matches '*.go'
rule set comfmt '// %s'
rule set tabstop 8
rule set tabexpand off

# Makefiles
client is acme
event is open
query matches '*Makefile'
rule set comfmt '# %s'
rule set tabstop 8
rule set tabexpand off
.EE
.SH FILES
.TF \*9/rule/initial.rules
.TP
.B $HOME/lib/rules
user rulerfile; used when present
.TP
.B \*9/rule/initial.rules
built-in default rulerfile
.TP
.B ruler
service name for
.MR ruler 4 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MR ruler 4 ,
.MR ruler 3 ,
.MR rule 1
