.TH RULER 4
.SH NAME
ruler \- file system for rule-based configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ruler
[
.B -f
]
[
.B -v
]
[
.B -r
.I rulerfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I ruler
is a user-level file server that matches requests against a
.I rulerfile
and returns configuration directives.
Its behavior is programmed by a
.I rulerfile
in the format of
.MR ruler 7 .
.PP
Its services are posted via
.MR 9pserve 4
as
.BR ruler ,
and consist of two files,
.B ruler/query
and
.BR ruler/rules .
.PP
Clients open
.B ruler/query
for read and write, write a request (query, client, event, and id, one attribute per line), then read the response: zero or more directive lines from the matching rule.
One request and one response are consumed per open; each fid is independent.
If no rule matches, the response is empty.
.PP
The file
.B ruler/rules
may be read to inspect the rules as currently loaded and parsed.
Writing to
.B ruler/rules
reloads the rule set from the written content; for example,
.B "9p write ruler/rules"
with the rulerfile contents replaces the in-memory rules.
The daemon also reloads from the file on SIGHUP.
.PP
The
.B -f
option causes the process to run in the foreground.
The
.B -v
option enables verbose logging to standard error.
The
.B -r
option specifies the path to the rulerfile, overriding all other locations.
.PP
If
.B -r
is not given, ruler looks for a rulerfile in the following order:
.IP 1.
.B $HOME/lib/rules
if that file exists.
.IP 2.
.BR \*9/rule/initial.rules ,
the built-in default.
.SH FILES
.TF \*9/rule/initial.rules
.TP
.B $HOME/lib/rules
user rulerfile; used when present
.TP
.B \*9/rule/initial.rules
built-in default rulerfile
.TP
.B ruler
mount name for
.MR ruler 4 .
.SH SOURCE
.B \*9/src/cmd/ruler
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MR ruler 7 ,
.MR ruler 3 ,
.MR rule 1
