.TH GITLINK 1
.SH NAME
gitlink \- print a web URL for a file or directory in a Git repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gitlink
[
.I file
[
.I line1
[
.I line2
]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gitlink
prints a URL for
.I file
in its Git repository's web interface.
When run from an
.MR acme 1
window with no arguments, it uses the current window's path and,
if text is selected, includes a line range in the URL.
.PP
The hosting provider is detected from the repository's
.B origin
remote URL.
GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket are supported;
self-hosted instances are matched by hostname.
.PP
The URL points to the file or directory at the current branch,
or at the commit hash if the repository is in detached HEAD state.
.SS "Running from Acme"
With no arguments,
.I gitlink
reads the current window's path from its tag
and the selection from
.MR acmeaddr 1 .
.PP
If the window's path is a
.IR directory ,
.I gitlink
produces a URL for the directory itself.
If text is selected in the window,
the first non-empty line of the selection is taken as the name
of a file or subdirectory under the window's path,
and the URL points to that entry instead.
No line numbers are ever added for directory windows.
.PP
If the window's path is a
.IR file ,
.I gitlink
produces a URL for that file.
If text is selected, the URL includes a line range fragment
corresponding to the selected lines.
.SS "Line range fragments"
Line range fragments are formatted according to the hosting provider:
.TP
GitHub and GitLab
.B #L
.I n
for a single line,
.BI #L n -L m
for a range.
.TP
Bitbucket
.BI # filename - n
for a single line,
.BI # filename - n - m
for a range.
.SS "Command-line use"
When invoked with a
.I file
argument,
.I gitlink
prints the URL for that file.
Relative paths and paths containing
.B ..
are resolved to absolute paths before use.
.PP
An optional
.I line1
argument adds a single-line fragment to the URL.
An optional
.I line2
argument extends the fragment to a range from
.I line1
to
.IR line2 .
.SH EXAMPLES
Print the URL for a file on the current branch:
.IP
.EX
% gitlink src/cmd/acme/acme.c
https://github.com/owner/repo/blob/main/src/cmd/acme/acme.c
.EE
.PP
Print the URL for lines 10 through 20 of a file:
.IP
.EX
% gitlink src/cmd/acme/acme.c 10 20
https://github.com/owner/repo/blob/main/src/cmd/acme/acme.c#L10-L20
.EE
.PP
From an Acme window showing a source file with lines 42\(en48 selected,
executing
.B gitlink
from the tag prints:
.IP
.EX
https://github.com/owner/repo/blob/main/src/cmd/acme/acme.c#L42-L48
.EE
.PP
From an Acme directory window with
.B acme.c
selected, executing
.B gitlink
from the tag prints:
.IP
.EX
https://github.com/owner/repo/blob/main/src/cmd/acme/acme.c
.EE
.SH SOURCE
.B \*9/bin/gitlink
.SH SEE ALSO
.MR acme 1 ,
.MR acmeaddr 1 ,
.MR acmeevent 1
.SH BUGS
Only the first non-empty line of a selection is used when resolving
a name in a directory window.
Multi-component relative paths in a directory selection
(e.g.
.BR subdir/file )
are used as-is and may not resolve correctly if the intermediate
directory does not exist under the window's path.
