.TH RULE 1
.SH NAME
rule \- query the ruler service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rule
[
.B -q
.I query
] [
.B -c
.I client
] [
.B -e
.I event
] [
.B -i
.I id
]
.PP
.B rule
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rule
sends a request to the
.MR ruler 4
daemon and prints the response to standard output.
.PP
When called with flags,
.I rule
composes the request from the supplied arguments.
If
.B -q
is omitted but other flags are given, the query is read from standard input
(one line, trailing newline stripped), so a file path may be piped in:
.EX
	echo /home/user/src/main.go | rule -c acme -e open -i 7
.EE
.PP
When called with no flags at all,
.I rule
reads the complete raw request from standard input
(one
.IB attribute = value
line per field) and forwards it verbatim to the daemon.
This form is useful in scripts that construct the full request themselves:
.EX
	printf 'query=/home/user/src/main.go\\nclient=acme\\nevent=open\\nid=1\\n' | rule
.EE
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.B -q
Set the
.B query
field (e.g. an absolute file path).
.TP
.B -c
Set the
.B client
field (e.g.
.BR acme ,
.BR sam ).
.TP
.B -e
Set the
.B event
field (e.g.
.BR open ,
.BR save ).
.TP
.B -i
Set the
.B id
field (e.g. a window id).
.PP
Unset fields default to the empty string.
The request format is described in
.MR ruler 7 .
.PP
A matching rule responds with one or more
.IB key = value
lines.
If no rule matches, the response is empty and a diagnostic is printed to
standard error.
.SH EXAMPLE
Query for a Go file opened in acme:
.EX
	rule -q /home/user/src/main.go -c acme -e open -i 7
.EE
A matching rule might respond:
.EX
	tabstop=4
	tabexpand=on
.EE
.SH SOURCE
.B \*9/src/cmd/rule
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MR ruler 4 ,
.MR ruler 7
