.TH WALK 1
.SH NAME
walk, sor \- walk a file tree; filter filenames by rc expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B walk
[
.B -q
] [
.BI -d " depth"
] [
.I dir ...
]
.PP
.B sor
.I snippet
[
.I snippet ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Walk
prints the path of every file and directory reachable from each
.I dir
argument, one per line, in the style of
.IR du (1).
If no
.I dir
is given,
.B .
is used.
Files named
.B .
or
.B ..
are never printed.
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.BI -d " depth"
Limit recursion to
.I depth
levels.
A depth of
.B 0
prints nothing;
.B 1
prints only the immediate children of each
.IR dir .
.TP
.B -q
Quote each path using
.IR rc (1)
quoting rules so that the output can be safely re-read by
.IR rc (1)
even when filenames contain spaces or special characters.
.PP
.I Sor
(select on rc) reads filenames from standard input, one per line,
and prints each filename for which at least one
.I snippet
succeeds.
Each
.I snippet
is an
.IR rc (1)
expression evaluated with the current filename available as
.BR $f .
A snippet succeeds when its exit status is zero.
Multiple snippets are tried in order; the filename is printed as soon
as the first succeeds (short-circuit OR).
.SH EXAMPLES
List all files under the current directory:
.EX
    walk
.EE
.PP
List all files up to two levels deep under
.BR /sys/src :
.EX
    walk -d 2 /sys/src
.EE
.PP
Find all C source files under the current directory:
.EX
    walk | sor '~ $f *.c'
.EE
.PP
Find all C source and header files:
.EX
    walk | sor '~ $f *.c' '~ $f *.h'
.EE
.PP
Find all regular files (not directories):
.EX
    walk | sor 'test -f $f'
.EE
.PP
Find files modified in the last day:
.EX
    walk | sor 'test `{find $f -maxdepth 0 -mtime -1 2>/dev/null}'
.EE
.PP
Print all Go files with rc-safe quoting, then pass to another tool:
.EX
    walk -q | sor '~ $f *.go' | xargs grep -l 'func main'
.EE
.PP
.I Walk
and
.I sor
compose naturally with other Plan 9 tools:
.EX
    walk /usr/local/plan9/src | sor '~ $f *.c' | xargs wc -l
.EE
.SH SOURCE
.B /sys/src/cmd/walk
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR du (1),
.IR rc (1),
.IR field (1),
.IR grep (1)
.SH BUGS
.I Walk
does not follow symbolic links.
.PP
.I Sor
reads all input before processing when the input is a pipe,
since it uses
.IR rc (1)'s
.B for
statement to iterate over lines.
This makes it unsuitable for infinite or very large input streams.
.PP
The
.B -d
flag counts directory levels, not path components;
a depth of
.B 1
descends into the top-level directory but does not recurse further.
